Apirule multiple services tutorial (#15213)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-03-expose-multiple-services.md

---

> title: Expose a workload with multiple services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Expose multiple services under the same host
```

The title seems to be a little to generic

---

This tutorial shows how to expose a workload with multiple services that share the same host on different paths.

The tutorial may be a follow-up to the [Use a custom domain to expose a workload](./apix-01-own-domain.md) tutorial.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial is based on a sample HttpBin service deployment and a sample Function. To deploy or create those workloads, follow the [Create a workload](./apix-02-create-workload.md) tutorial.

## Multiple services definition on different paths

Follow the instruction to expose your unsecured instance of the HttpBin service and your unsecured sample Function at the same time on different paths.

1. Export the following value as an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS={DOMAIN_NAME} # This is a Kyma domain or your custom subdomain e.g. api.mydomain.com.
   ```

> 2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use the Kyma domain but your custom domain, replace the following Kyma Gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway by your custom domain. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use Kyma default gateway (kyma-system/kyma-gateway) replace it with your own. Run:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: multiple-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: multiple-service
    example: multiple-service
spec:
  host: multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: httpbin
        port: 8000
    - path: /function
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: function

>         port: 8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        port: 80
```

```

3. Call the endpoints by sending `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample function:

   ```bash

>    curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/ip  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin
```
/ip isn't exposed in this scenario

   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function  # Send a GET request to the Function

   ```
These calls return the code 200 response.

## Root level service definition and multiple services definition on different paths

Follow the instruction to expose your unsecured instance of the HttpBin service and your sample Function on different paths with a service defined at the root level - HttpBin in the following example. 
  >**NOTE:** The services definition at the **spec.rules** level have higher precedence than the service definition at the **spec.service** level.

1. Export the following value as an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS={DOMAIN_NAME} # This is a Kyma domain or your custom subdomain e.g. api.mydomain.com
   ```

> 2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use the Kyma domain but your custom domain, replace the following Kyma Gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway by your custom domain. In the following example, the services definition at the **spec.rules** level will overwrite the service definition at the **spec.service** level. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use Kyma default gateway (kyma-system/kyma-gateway) replace it with your own. In the following example, the services definition at the **spec.rules** level will overwrite the service definition at the **spec.service** level. Run:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: multiple-service
  namespace: default
  labels:
    app: multiple-service
    example: multiple-service
spec:
  host: multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
    - path: /function
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: function
        port: 80
```

3. Call the endpoints by sending `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample function:

   ```bash

>    curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/ip  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin
```

---
title: Expose multiple services on the same host
---

> This tutorial shows how to expose a workload with multiple services that share the same host on different paths.

Reviewer 2: The tutorial has two subsections, "Multiple services definition on different paths" and "Root level service definition and multiple services definition on different paths".
What's their relationship? Are they alternatives to each other (my guess), or does one follow after the other? Or is the second one a specialized case of the first one? 

We should make their relationship clear in this introductory section.

Reviewer 2: Then I'd add that information. I shamelessly stole from your explanation:

```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to expose a workload with multiple services that share the same host on different paths.

You can either define a service at the root level, which is applied to all paths except the ones you've explicitly set service for  at the rules level, or you can just define different services on each path separately without the need to define a root service.
```

The tutorial may be a follow-up to the [Use a custom domain to expose a workload](./apix-01-own-domain.md) tutorial.

## Prerequisites

> This tutorial is based on a sample HttpBin service deployment and a sample Function. To deploy or create those workloads, follow the [Create a workload](./apix-02-create-workload.md) tutorial.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit unclear to me.
Does it mean I **must** perform the "Create a workload" tutorial before I can start this tutorial? Or is that optional?

What are the hard prerequisites to perform the following steps? Something like 

> - You have a sample HttpBin service deployment {where?}. 
> - You have a sample Function {where?}.
> - If you don't want to use Kyma's default gateway (kyma-system/kyma-gateway), you know your custom gateway {path?}.

Does the "Create a workload" tutorial show me how to meet those prerequisites?

Reviewer 2: But you do need a workload (no matter if you already have it or create it with the tutorial). And a HttpBin service deployment. And a sample Function too?

Author: We used here HttpBin and the sample Function only for demonstration, as they've been used in all the other API exposure tutorials

Reviewer 2: But then what the hard prerequisites...? 😮 
Ah, never mind. I see this sentence appears in all other API Exposure tutorials as well. Let's keep it as is :D

## Multiple services definition on different paths

Follow the instruction to expose your unsecured instance of the HttpBin service and your unsecured sample Function at the same time on different paths.

1. Export the following value as an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS={DOMAIN_NAME} # This is a Kyma domain or your custom subdomain e.g. api.mydomain.com.
   ```

2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use Kyma default gateway (kyma-system/kyma-gateway), replace it with your custom gateway. Run:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```yaml
```

cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: multiple-service
  namespace: $NAMESPACE
  labels:
    app: multiple-service
    example: multiple-service
spec:
  host: multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: httpbin
        port: 8000
    - path: /function
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: function
        port: 80
EOF
```

3. Call the endpoints by sending `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample function:

   ```bash
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function  # Send a GET request to the Function

   ```

> These calls return the code 200 response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   These calls return the code 200 response.
```

   ```bash
   export DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS={DOMAIN_NAME} # This is a Kyma domain or your custom subdomain e.g. api.mydomain.com
   ```

2. Expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function by creating an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use Kyma default gateway (kyma-system/kyma-gateway), replace it with your custom gateway. In the following example, the services definition at the **spec.rules** level overwrites the service definition at the **spec.service** level. Run:

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  name: multiple-service
  namespace: $NAMESPACE
  labels:
    app: multiple-service
    example: multiple-service
spec:
  host: multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
  gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  service:
    name: httpbin
    port: 8000
  rules:
    - path: /headers
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
    - path: /function
      methods: ["GET"]
      accessStrategies:
        - handler: noop
      service:
        name: function
        port: 80
EOF
```

> 3. Call the endpoints by sending `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To call the endpoints, send `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample function:
```
Are you sure it's lowercase "function" here?

   ```bash
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function  # Send a GET request to the Function

   ```

> These calls return the code 200 response.

Reviewer 2: 3 more blanks :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   These calls return the code 200 response.
```

---

> title: Expose multiple services on the same host

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Expose multiple workloads on the same host
```
and rename file to `apix-03-expose-multiple-workloads.md`

---

> This tutorial shows how to expose a workload with multiple services that share the same host on different paths.

Reviewer 3: it's not quite clear to me what `a workload with multiple services` means. i would just go simply with multiple services
```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to expose multiple services that share the same host on different paths.
```

---
title: Expose multiple services on the same host
---

This tutorial shows how to expose a workload with multiple services that share the same host on different paths.

> You can either define a service at the root level, which is applied to all paths except the ones you've explicitly set service for at the rules level, or you can just define different services on each path separately without the need to define a root service.

Reviewer 2: I just noticed, this is the reversed order compared to how it comes up in the following text. Please adjust it here or switch the sections so that the order matches :)

The tutorial may be a follow-up to the [Use a custom domain to expose a workload](./apix-01-own-domain.md) tutorial.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial is based on a sample HttpBin service deployment and a sample Function. To deploy or create those workloads, follow the [Create a workload](./apix-02-create-workload.md) tutorial.

## Multiple services definition on different paths

> Follow the instruction to expose your unsecured instance of the HttpBin service and your unsecured sample Function at the same time on different paths.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the instruction to expose your instance of the HttpBin service and your sample Function at the same time on different paths.
```

1. Export the following value as an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS={DOMAIN_NAME} # This is a Kyma domain or your custom subdomain e.g. api.mydomain.com.
   ```

> 2. To expose the instance of the HttpBin service and the instance of the sample Function, create an API Rule CR in your Namespace. If you don't want to use Kyma's default gateway, replace `kyma-system/kyma-gateway` with your custom gateway. Run:

Reviewer 3: i would suggest adding a note here that purpose of this tutorial is to highlight multiple services per path and recommend securing workload and read https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-03-expose-and-secure-workload-oauth2/ or https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-api-exposure/apix-05-expose-and-secure-workload-jwt/. the same note should be added for 2nd part of this tutorial

   apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
   kind: APIRule
   metadata:
     name: multiple-service
     namespace: $NAMESPACE
     labels:
       app: multiple-service
       example: multiple-service
   spec:
     host: multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS
     gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
     rules:
       - path: /headers
         methods: ["GET"]
         accessStrategies:
           - handler: noop
         service:
           name: httpbin
           port: 8000
       - path: /function
         methods: ["GET"]
         accessStrategies:
           - handler: noop
         service:
           name: function
           port: 80
   EOF
   ```

3. To call the endpoints, send `GET` requests to the HttpBin service and the sample Function:

   ```bash
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/headers  # Send a GET request to the HttpBin
   curl -ik -X GET https://multiple-service-example.$DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS/function  # Send a GET request to the Function

   ```
   These calls return the code 200 response.

## Root level service definition and multiple services definition on different paths

> Follow the instruction to expose your unsecured instance of the HttpBin service and your sample Function on different paths with a service defined at the root level - HttpBin in the following example. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the instruction to expose your instance of the HttpBin service and your sample Function on different paths with a service defined at the root level - HttpBin in the following example. 
```
